README.md, before:

# Rangers and Ruffians
_Version 2.1.0_

## What is Rangers and Ruffians?
Rangers and Ruffians (also called just "Rangers" or "RnR")
is a fantasy tabletop roleplaying game (RPG) created for and by a group of
nerdy friends. It can be dramatic, epic, and meaningful.
It can also be silly and funny. We think that it is usually pretty fun. 


### Why Rangers and Ruffians?
* __Good for Beginners__ 
  * Rangers and Ruffians is a great introduction to the world of tabletop gaming. With a simple to understand
    set of rules and easily scalable difficulty, R&R was designed with new players in mind. To this end, R&R 
    boasts simple but scalable core mechanics, while removing the complicated bloat that makes other tabletop
    games daunting for beginners.
* __Cheap to Start__
  * All core rules necessary to play Rangers and Ruffians are housed on this site. This keeps the cost of 
    entry low, so that you can start playing almost immediately.
* __Constant Updates__
  * Rangers and Ruffians is a passion project, which is constantly receiving new content including new
    classes, races, rules, and tuning.

### Getting Started:
Check out:
1. [The Core Rulebook](docs/Rulebook.md), which has info on how to play and build characters.
2. [The Book of Known Beasts](docs/Book_of_Known_Beasts.md) which contains creatures you might encounter on your travels.
3. [The Book of Lore](docs/Book_of_Lore.md) to learn about the world of Rangers and Ruffians.
4. [The Changelog](docs/Changelog.md) to keep up to date with the goings-on of Rangers and Ruffians.

Commit message:

Broke races/classes out of the rulebook

README.md, after:

# Rangers and Ruffians
_Version 2.1.0_

## What is Rangers and Ruffians?
Rangers and Ruffians (also called just "Rangers" or "RnR")
is a fantasy tabletop roleplaying game (RPG) created for and by a group of
nerdy friends. It can be dramatic, epic, and meaningful.
It can also be silly and funny. We think that it is usually pretty fun. 


### Why Rangers and Ruffians?
* __Good for Beginners__ 
  * Rangers and Ruffians is a great introduction to the world of tabletop gaming. With a simple to understand
    set of rules and easily scalable difficulty, R&R was designed with new players in mind. To this end, R&R 
    boasts simple but scalable core mechanics, while removing the complicated bloat that makes other tabletop
    games daunting for beginners.
* __Cheap to Start__
  * All core rules necessary to play Rangers and Ruffians are housed on this site. This keeps the cost of 
    entry low, so that you can start playing almost immediately.
* __Constant Updates__
  * Rangers and Ruffians is a passion project, which is constantly receiving new content including new
    classes, races, rules, and tuning.

### Getting Started:
Check out:
1. [The Core Rulebook](docs/Rulebook.md), which explains the rules of the game.
2. [The Compendium of Character Creation](docs/Compendium_of_Character_Creation.md), which houses all of the _Races_, _Classes_, and _Skills_ needed to build a character.
3. [The Tome of the Ancients ](docs/Tome_of_the_Ancients.md) which holds all of the spellbooks and spells that a mage might need.
4. [The Book of Known Beasts](docs/Book_of_Known_Beasts.md) which contains creatures you might encounter on your travels.
5. [The Book of Lore](docs/Book_of_Lore.md) to learn about the world of Rangers and Ruffians.
6. [The Changelog](docs/Changelog.md) to keep up to date with the goings-on of Rangers and Ruffians.
