## Rangers and Ruffians 2.1.1: The Rogues and Rangers Update. November 23, 2019

### Overview:
This revision brings:
1. Additional Race and Class Balance Tweaks, especially to ```Rouges``` and ```Rangers```.
2. An updated rule regarding player movement speed.

### Rule Changes:
* A character's movement distance on a given turn is now computed via the following formula: ```movement = 15ft + (5ft x dexterity)```,
  where negative dexterity values are treated as ```0```. This makes Dexterity an important stat even for the most ardent knight, and, paired
  with the ```2.1.0```'s update to make perception affect initiative, should make choosing stats on level up far more interesting.

### Additional Clarifications:
* Clarified how armor and shields work in the [Rulebook](Rulebook.md#armor-and-shields).
* Clarified how rest works. [Rulebook](Rulebook.md#rest).

### Race Balance Changes:

#### Catterwol
* __Abilities__
  * __Changed Fast Paws__ _Gain an extra offhand action_
    * __Change:__ The extra offhand action cannot be used as an attack.
    * __Reasoning:__ If the extra offhand was used as an attack, the Catterwol would have the highest damage output of any race by far.

#### Wood Elf
* __Abilities__
  * __Changed Counter Attack__ _Reaction, for 1 Action Point, counter attack when you are attacked_
    * __Change:__ You no longer have to roll to see if the counterattack succeeds.
    * __Reasoning:__ With a cost associated with the counterattack and ```Reaction``` meaning it can only be done once per turn, it felt unnecessarily punishing to force the ability to sometimes fail.

#### High Elf
* __Abilities:__
  * __Added Learned__ _Start with an extra language._
    * __Reasoning:__ In line with erudite High Elf.

#### Orc
* __Abilities:__
  * __Changed Thunderous Blow__ _Add an extra dice of damage to an attack for 1 action point._
    * __Change:__ Reduced cost from 2 to 1 action point.
    * __Reasoning:__ In line with costs for similar abilities.

#### Lizkin
* __Abilities:__
  * __Changed Posion Bite__ _Bite an enemy and have a chance to do poison damage_
    * __Change:__ Damage now scales with level.
    * __Reasoning:__ Ability is now worthwhile to use at higher levels.


#### Daemonspawn
* __Abilities:__ 
  * __Changed Charm__ _If an enemy fails an SP save, they cannot attack you._
    * __Change:__ You now also gain advantage on CHA checks with the affected entity.
    * __Reasoning:__ This makes sense and gives the ability more utility.
  * __Changed Sacrificial Rite:__ _Spend health to gain an extra action._
    * __Change:__ Amount of health needed is now equal to your level (minimum of 1) rather than a static 10.
    * __Reasoning:__ A static 10 health makes the ability impossible to use until high levels.


#### Automaton
* __Abilities:__
  * __Changed Piston Punch__ _Throw a powerful punch that could knock enemies prone._
    * __Change:__ Damage now scales with Level. Prone happens on contested Strength rather than critical hit. Chance scales with enemy size.
  * __Changed Overdrive:__ _Spend health to gain extra strength or dexterity._
    * __Change:__ Amount of health needed is now 2x the amount gained rather than a static 10. The maximum amount gained is 10.
    * __Reasoning:__ A static 10 health makes the ability impossible to use until high levels.

#### Sprout
* __Abilities:__
  * __Changed Harden:__ _Lose 2 DEX to gain 2 armor_
    * __Change:__ Now explicitly does not stack with other armor.
    * __Reasoning:__ It is not the intention of this ability to be used to create an un-killable strength based sprout build.

#### Hissling
* __Abilities:__
  * __Changed Tossed Around__ _Take half blunt damage, but be tossed back by the attack._
    * __Change:__ Take full damage if being tossed back makes you hit something.
    * __Reasoning:__ Adds an interesting dynamic to an already cool ability.

### Class Balance Changes:

#### Barbarian:
* __Abilities:__
  * __Merged Blind Rage and Berserk__ _Blind Rage: Advantage at SP saves while berserk._
    * __Reasoning:__ Berserk was already granting a static +1 to inner fire. Removed that and merged
      in blind rage to keep things simpler.
  * __Moved Always angry from level 7 to level 5__ _Go Berserk once per battle (up from 1/day)_
    * __Reasoning:__ Berserk is a core barbarian feature, so it was problematic to wait for it to become 
      consistently good until level 7.
  * __Removed Warmaster__ _Level 11, gain +1 additional strength when going berserk_
    * __Reasoning:__ This ability was underwhelming at best.
  * __Moved Savage Critical from level 5 to level 11__ _Additional damage on critical hit_
    * __Reasoning:__ Replaced Warmaster. Was a little overpowered at early levels when combined with other Barbarian 
      abilities. 

#### Knight: 
* __Abilities:__
  * __Removed Shield Up__ _Level 3. Half damage from non-magic ranged attacks when you have a shield_
    * __Reasoning:__ Shields now come with their own abilities and requirements.
  * __Added New Ability Shield Master__ _Level 0. Don't take movement penalties from shield use._
    * __Reasoning:__ With the new shield and movement rules, this ability was a great replacement for ```Shield Up```.
  * __Added New Ability Charge!__ _Offhand. Run an extra 10ft. Contested STR check if you hit someone. Looser is knocked prone._
    * __Reasoning:__ With the move towards ```DEX``` based movement, the knight was being left behind. This new ability helps to make them feel like they have more movement.
  * __Changed Armored__ _You start with a suit of armor._
    * __Change:__ Armor is now Chainmail (```+1```) instead of Light Plate (```+2```).
    * __Reasoning:__ ```+2``` armor is too effective at level 0.

#### Paladin:
* __Abilities:__
  * __Swapped Chainmail with Armored__ _You start with armor_
    * __Reasoning:__ With the change of armored from ```+2``` to ```+1```, the chainmail ability became redundant.

#### Fighter
* __Abilities:__
  * __Renamed Trained Attack to Focused Attack__ _Re-roll an attack_
    * __Reasoning:__ It was confusing to have abilities named ```Trained Attack``` and ```Trained Precision```.
  * __Moved Determination from Level 1 to Level 0__ _Gain a D10 inspiration dice as an offhand_
    * __Reasoning:__ The fighter's level 0 was sparse, and Determination is a core class feature.
  * __Moved Minor Second Wind from Level 3 to level 1__ _Regain 1d6 health for 1 action point as an offhand action_
    * __Reasoning:__ Filled the void left by moving determination.
  * __Added Greater Second Wind to level 5__ _Heal yourself for 1d12 damage as an offhand for 1 action point_
    * __Reasoning:__ It was an oversight that their was a ```Minor``` and ```Major``` second wind but no ```Greater```.

#### Ranger
This was a larger Rework of the Ranger, which had kind of lost its way and become a Jack of all Trades,
Master of None. Now, the Ranger is a very competent fighter with minor magic, who excels at tracking enemies.
In the future, a monster hunter subclass will likely be added.

* __Abilities:__
  * __Removed Shifting Cloak__ _You begin with a cloak which gives you advantage on stealth checks when still_.
    * __Reasoning:__ Redundant, did the same thing as ```Camouflage```.
  *  __Moved Tracker from Level 3 to Level 0__ _Advantage on tracking checks_.  
    * __Reasoning:__ Tracking is a core ranger feature, and should be present from level 0.
  * __Added New Ability, Embers__ _Shoot fire 10ft. Deals 1d4 dmg. Increases to 1d8 at LV3, 1d10 LV6, 1d12 LV9, 2d12 LV12._
    * __Reasoning:__ The Ranger was missing a solid damage dealing ability. Embers is the solution.
  * __Changed Finesse Strike__ _Add additional damage to an attack, which is extended over two turns if the enemy fails a SP save._
    * __Change:__ The ability used to add an additional dice of damage _and_ then another next turn if the enemy failed an SP save.  Now it adds an additional dice of damage and half as much next turn on a failed SP save.
    * __Reasoning__ This is more balanced at lower levels.
  * __Moved Finesse Strike from Level 5 to Level 3__
    * __Reasoning:__ Rangers gain ```Twin Blades``` at level 5, which overshadowed the value of ```Finesse Strike```.
  * __Removed Monster Slayer__ _Level 9, bonus damage to monsters_
    * __Reasoning:__ Didn't work with the more streamlined Ranger. Will return with new ```Monster Hunter``` subclass later.
  * __Removed Disengage__ _Level 9, Don't provoke exposed attacks as an offhand action._
    * __Reasoning:__ Didn't quite fit the Ranger class.
  * __Added New Ability Elemental Weapon__ _Level 9, Change your weapon's damage type for 1 action point. Lasts until dispelled._
    * __Reasoning:__ Fit well with the capstone ```Fire and Ice```. A good and unique ability.
  * __Moved Spell of Darkvision From Level 11 to Level 3__ _Cast Darkvision on yourself for 1 Action Point_
    * __Reasoning:__ Too late in the game for an ability like this. A great ability at low levels.
  * __Removed Disarming Blow__ _Level 11, Disarm an opponent on a critical hit_
    * __Reasoning:__ Interesting ability, but did not fit with Ranger or Level 11.
  * __Added new Ability Major Medicine__ _Level 11, make 1x per day make a potion equivalent to a greater healing poition. Lasts 24 hours._
    * __Reasoning:__ It was an oversight that there were ```Minor``` and ```Greater``` Medicine abilities, but no ```Major```.
  * __Moved Expert Tracker from Level 13 to Level 11__ _Add 1d6 to tracking checks._
    * __Reasoning:__ This ability is quite useful, and it is better to get it to the player earlier.

#### Rogue
* __Abilities__
  * __Removed Ruffians__ _Base ability, gain advantage when speaking with seedy folk._
    * __Reasoning:__ This may be part of a larger trend. It is in consideration that we may add a new system ```Backgrounds```, which can be chosen from to gain specific (very small) advantages or abilities. This ability would fall under one of those Backgrounds.
  * __Changed Ranged Weapon Proficiency to Thrown Weapon Proficiency__
    * __Reasoning:__ It wasn't the intention of the Rogue design that they would be able to use bows by default.
  * __Added Spell of Darkvision to Assassin Level 5__ _Gain Darkvision for 1 action point_
    * __Reasoning:__ Previously, the Assassin gained regular Darkvision at level 9. This was both too late to be useful and didn't make sense.
  * __Added New Ability Sticky Fingers to Level 5 Thieves__ _Add 1d6 to checks made to steal something_.
    * __Reasoning:__ Thieves didn't actually have many abilities that made them better at thievery.
  * __Added New Ability Spell of Minor Invisibility to Level 9 Assassins__ _Become invisible for 5 minutes for 1 action point_
    * __Reasoning:__ With Darkvision moved from Level 9 to Level 5, a new ability was needed. This will add additional utility to the assassin, and should be very strong paired with their Strike from the Shadows ability.
  * __Returned Assassinate as a Level 15 Assassin Capstone__

#### Archer
* __Abilities__
  * __Removed Arrow Stab__ _Make a 1d6 arrow stab._
    * __Reasoning:__ Better than a bow at low levels, totally useless at high levels. Not needed in the game.

#### Bard
* __Abilities__
  * __Modified Minor, Greater, and Major Restful Melody__ _Bonus health for allies during rest._
    * __Change:__ Instead of granting 1, 2, or 3 d8 extra healing, it grants 1, 2, or 3 rest dies of healing.
    * __Reasoning:__ In line with new rest health rules.

#### Sorcerer
* __Clarification__
  * Finally clarified sorcerer's ```Spell Modification``` Ability. 