## Rangers and Ruffians 2.4.0: The Simplification Update


### System Changes:

* __Defense and Accuracy:__ Whenever an attack is made, the attacker must roll `1d20` and add their accuracy (attack stat, e.g., `strength or dex + any item bonuses`) and see if it meets or exceeds the enemy’s defense (`5 + armor worn`). If it does, the attack lands, else it misses. If a `20` is rolled, the attack is a critical hit, and all dice damage is doubled.
* __Diminishing Returns (Stats):__ Through a combination of other changes, stats points now always count as worth 1 point (i.e., they are no longer worth a half point after 3).
* __Weapons:__ The weapon system (i.e., weapon abilities and movement penalties) has been removed for ease-of-use reasons.
* __Skills:__ Skills have been temporarily removed for time reasons, but should be reintroduced in a future update.

### Balance Changes:

* __Movement:__ Weapons no longer affect movement. Dexterity no longer affects movement. Base movement decreased from 30 feet to 25 feet.
* __Leveling up:__ On level up, players now always receive one stat point, rather than alternating between `+2` and `+1`.
* __Max stat values:__ Stat values may no longer exceed `+5`.
* __Race Balance:__ Races no longer grant stat bonuses.
* __Class Balance:__ The standard stat array for classes has been updated from `[-3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2]` to `[-2, -1, 0, 1, 1, 2]`.
* __Ability Balance:__ A number of abilities have been updated to integrate with the new Defense/Accuracy system (e.g., dodge previously allowed you a chance to dodge an attack, now it adds a bonus to your defense for the turn, effectively doing the same thing).
* __Mage Balance:__ All spells have been clarified with ranges, schools, and durations. Most damage dealing spells have received a buff to match new weapon handout recommendations. A subset of spells can now be "upcast," allowing the caster to spend extra action points to make the spell more potent.

### Website Update:
The website now prompts you for an update if you are running from a stale cache.

## Miscellaneous
New poohbah guidelines: guidelines added for monster health/damage/accuracy, check difficulty, weapon handouts by gameplay tier, and magic item handouts by gameplay tier.

