## Rangers and Ruffians 2.1.3: The Combat Update

### Overview:
Wip

### Race Balance Changes
#### Catterwol
* __Abilities__
  * __Changed Fast Paws__ _Gain an extra offhand action_
    * __Change:__ Reverted Fast Paws to its previous, pre-2.1.1 state (Offhand action can be used as an attack again).
    * __Reasoning:__ Allows Catterwol to shine.

#### Hardfoot Halfling
* __Abilities__
  * __Changed Courageous Blow__ _Add your INF to an attack_
    * __Change:__ Now allows you to add twice your INF to an attack.
    * __Reasoning:__ Makes the ability more useful at high levels.

#### Dwarf
* __Abilities__
  * __Changed Very Dangerous Over Short Distances__ _Advantage if you begin your turn next to an enemy_
    * __Change:__ Clarified that this ability negates disadvantage when attacking with a ranged weapon.
    * __Reasoning:__ Clarification.

#### Daemonspawn
* __Abilities__
  * __Changed Fix Your Eyes on Me__ _Force an enemy to see only you. Adv on CHA checks._
    * __Change:__ Added combat use: force enemy to attack only you.
    * __Reasoning:__ Increases the utility of the ability.
  * __Changed Sacrificial Rite__ _Sacrifice half your level in health to make a second action._
    * __Change:__ Round up rather than down.
    * __Reasoning:__ Adds to cost-benefit of ability.

#### Automaton
* __Abilities__
  * __Changed Self Repair__ _During combat, self repair._
    * __Change:__ Now costs an action rather than a turn.
    * __Reasoning:__ Makes automaton more survivable despite its inability to heal via potions.
  * __Changed Armored Exterior__ _Take less damage in combat._
    * __Change:__ Rather than adding a static +1 armor, this ability now allows the automaton to take half damage from piercing, slashing, blunt, fire, and ice attacks. Does not stack with Berserk.
    * __Reasoning:__ This change will make the automaton far more survivable despite its inability to drink potions.
  * __Changed Piston Punch__ _Attempt to knock an opponent down._
    * __Change:__ Increased damage across the board.
    * __Reasoning:__ Makes this attack more viable at all levels.

#### Hissling
* __Abilities__
  * __Changed Chomp Chomp__ _Bite and cling to an enemy._
    * __Change:__ Now costs an offhand action rather than an action.
    * __Reasoning:__ Makes this low damage ability more viable at all levels.


### Class Balance Changes

#### Barbarian
The Barbarian now has two subclasses, _Path of Rage_ and _Path of Nature_.

#### Path of Rage Barbarian
The Path of Rage Barbarian now gains the following new abilities:

* __Area Control:__
  * __Taunt:__ Force all enemies within 30ft. to make a SP save or be forced to attack only you.
* __Combat__
  * __Berserk:__ Gain +1 STR, DEX, and +2 INF. Take half damage from piercing and blunt attacks.
  * __Brutal Attack:__ Extra damage dice. Size based contested STR save. Fail: prone or 10ft knockback.
  * __Throw Caution to the Wind:__ Add an extra damage dice, but enemies get advantage on attacks.
  * __Arching Swing:__ Attack all enemies adjacent to you.
  * __Hurl Weapon:__ 2 extra damage dice. 5x STR/DEX distance.
  * __Single Out:__ Single out an enemy. Gain 15 feet of movement when moving towards them and take advantage on all attacks.
* __Combat Passive:__
  * __Furious Blows:__ Two attacks when berserk
  * __Adrenaline:__ When you are below 50% health, gain an extra 10 feet of movement.
  * __Terrify:__ Singled out enemies must make an INF save against your spell power or be scared of you.
__Combo:__
  * __Chained Together:__ After slaying an enemy gain 10 feet of movement and a free attack or Hurl Weapon.
  * __Warrior Spirit:__ When you slay an enemy or land a critical hit, gain 1 action point.
  * __Spirit of Rage:__ (Capstone) After slaying an enemy, gain another full turn.
__Multiplier:__
  * __Savage Critical:__ Additional dice of damage when you crit
  * __Fury:__ On a turn where you have taken damage, add an extra damage dice to all of your attacks.
  * __The Opener:__ Attack an enemy that hasn't gone, 2x damage, contested STR save. Failure: prone.
  * __The Closer:__ Add two dice of damage to prone enemies.
  * __Glory:__ When you hit low health, double your damage (25%)

The anticipated way to play the Path of Rage Barbarian is as follows:

__Edge of Death__  

If a high level Path of Rage Barbarian enters combat with low (< 25%) health, it can stack abilities for enormous damage.

1. As an offhand action, __Single Out__ an enemy. Use all movement to reach it. (we have an extra 20ft due to __Adrenaline__ and __Single Out__).
2. Using __The Opener__ and __Brutal Attack__ gain 2x damage and an extra damage dice respectively.
3. Because the Barbarian is at low health, _Glory_ is active, gaining us an extra 2x damage.
4. Using __Throw Caution to the Wind__ we gain another dice of damage.
5. Therefore, our first attack deals 4x damage with 3 damage dice.
6. If it is a critical hit, we add 2 more damage dice (due to __Savage Critical__).
7. Using __Furious Blows__ we have a second attack. If the enemy is prone, we deal 2 more damage dice due to __The Closer__.
8. Our second attack deals 4x damage with 5 damage dice or 7 damage dice if it is a critical hit.

__Mopping Up__  

A Path of Rage barbarian can chain together many kills in a single turn by targeting weak enemies.

1. If a Path of Rage Barbarian downs an enemy, __Chain Together__ allows it to instantly gains 10 feet of movement and a free attack or __Hurl Weapon__ action.
2. By decomposing it's movement between attacks, the Path of Rage Barbarian can potentially mop up many low level enemies in a single turn, running from one to the next and slaying them.


#### Path of Nature Barbarian
The Path of Nature Barbarian is a brand new subclass which uses the power of the spirits of nature to deal heavy damage on the battlefield.

The Path of Rage Nature now gains the following new abilities:

* __Core Mechanic:__
  * __Spiritual Infusion:__ (Cost 1) Equip a single one of your aspects.
  * __Greater Spiritual Infusion:__ (Cost 1) Equip 2 of your aspects.
  * __Major Spiritual Infusion:__ (Cost 1) Equip 3 of your aspects.
  * __Legendary Spiritual Infusion:__ (Capstone) (Cost 1) Equip 6 of your aspects.
* __Aspects:__
  * __Elk Aspect:__ Add 15 feet of movement.
  * __Wolf Aspect:__ If you attack an enemy with an ally, gain advantage.
  * __Wildcat Aspect:__ You have the ability to dodge incoming attacks.
  * __Bull Aspect:__ All of your attacks have a chance to knock an enemy prone.
  * __Bear Aspect:__ You take half blunt and piercing damage.
  * __Elemental Aspect:__ Convert your damage to a different type of damage of your choice. Declare when aspect is equipped.
  * __Leech Aspect:__ Recover half your level (round up, min 1) in health whenever you land a blow.
  * __Dolphin Aspect:__ Swim at twice your walking speed and hold your breath for fifteen minutes.
* __Combat:__
  * __Spiritual Strike:__ Use your melee weapon to strike an enemy up to 30 feet away.
  * __Spiritual Shield:__ Block an attack.
  * __Greater Spiritual Shield:__ Block an attack aimed at an ally within 30 feet.
  * __Spiritually Reinforced Blow:__ Extra damage dice + Enemy must make a size based contested STR check or be knocked back 10 feet.
  * __Chain Strike:__ Make an attack that deals an extra dice of spiritual damage and immediately chains to a second enemy within 15 feet. Roll 1d20. On 10 or greater, continue the chain and repeat.
  * __Draining Strike:__ Regain half of the damage you deal as health.
  * __Spiritual Blast:__ Attack all enemies in a 30ft line in front of you.
* __Combat Passive:__
  * __Phase Walk:__ If you strike down an enemy with Spiritual weapon, teleport to them.
* __Buff Ally:__
  * __Spiritual Aid:__ Grant an ally advantage on their next action or an extra damage dice on their next attack.
  * __Rouse to Action:__ Grant an ally their full movement and one action.
  * __Infuse Other:__ Grant an ally the benefit of one of your infusions for 1 battle.
* __Non Combat:__
  * __Form Shift:__ Change form to that of one of the aspects you are inhabiting.

The anticipated core gameplay loops for the Path of Nature Barbarian are as follows:

__Survivable__  

By equipping __Leech Aspect__ and using __Draining Strike__ the Path of Nature Barbarian can keep its health up.
By adding __Bear Aspect__ the Path of Nature Barbarian begins taking half damage from many attacks.

__Mobile__   

By equipping __Elk Aspect__ and using __Phase Walk__ the Path of Nature Barbarian can move incredibly quickly about the battlefield.

__Crowd Control__  

By combining __Bull Aspect__ and __Chain Strike__ or __Spiritual Blast__, the Path of Nature Barbarian can knock many enemies prone.

__Good Against Everything__  

By using __Elemental Aspect__ the Path of Nature Barbarian can maximize its damage against any enemy type.

__Team Player__  

By using __Spiritual Aid__, __Rouse to Action__, and __Infuse Other__ the Path of Nature Barbarian can buff allies in a number of ways.
Using __Wolf Aspect__, the Path of Nature Barbarian can deal extra damage when cooperating with allies.

#### Knight:
The Knight now gains the following new abilities:
* __Area Control__
  * __Block Movement:__ If you hit an enemy with your exposed attack, they must make a contested STR check or be stopped in their tracks.
  * __Hold the Line:__ Gain a second exposed attack.
* __Ally Buff:__ 
  * __Inspiring Critical:__ When you get a critical hit or slay an enemy, grant an ally of your choice a 1d10 inspiration dice.
  * __Defender Aura: Cost:__ 2 Grant all nearby (30ft) allies half damage from physical attacks for 3 turns.
* __Combat:__
  * __Overwhelming Strike:__ Extra damage dice. Size based contested STR or advantage on next attack.
  * __Shield Bash:__  Offhand: Contested STR check. Fail: loose action. d4 damage LV0 d8 LV4, d10 LV8, d12 LV12.
  * __Ready Stance:__ Allows you to counter-attack
  * __Knight's Challenge:__ Call out an enemy. It must make a INF save against your spell power or be forced to attack you. You gain advantage in all attacks.
  * __Warrior's Vow:__ Gain an extra attack against an entity you have challenged. 
  * __Charge__ Offhand. Charge an extra 10ft. Size STR check. Looser is knocked prone.
  * __Greater Charge:__ Charge an extra 15ft. End in an attack.
  * __Steel Yourself:__ Choose to take half damage.
  * __Shield of Men:__  Take a teammate's damage for them. Halved. 30ft rad.
* __Combat Passive__
  * __Armor Master:__ No penalty from armor
  * __Shield Master:__ No penalty from shields
  * __Last Line of Defense:__ If an ally is down, gain a damage dice.
  * __Cleave:__ Attack two adjacent enemies in front of you with a single attack.
* __Combo__
  * __Press the Advantage:__ If you land a critical hit, gain a free shield bash attack.
* __Movement:__
  * __Pivot:__ Trade spaces with an adjacent ally
  * __Advance:__ If you slay an enemy with a melee attack, you may step into their space.
  * __Controlled Advance:__ When you use the advance ability, gain an action which may be used to either attack again or ready your stance.
* __Survivability:__
  * __Stay on your feet:__ When you hit 0 health, flip a coin. On heads, stay alive with 1 health.
  * __Resilient Defense:__ A single attack can do at most 40 damage to you.
* __Social:__
  * __Kingsmen:__ Advantage speaking with loyal commoners.

The anticipated core gameplay loops for the knight are as follows:

__Hold the Line__  

1. The knight positions itself in front of vulnerable allies.
2. The knight uses __Ready Stance__ as an offhand action, giving it the ability to counter attack.
3. As enemies attempt to pass, it uses __None Shall Pass__ and __Hold the Line__ to stop them.
4. If an enemy gets past, the Knight uses __Shield of Men__ to defend the ally.
5. If the Knight is high enough level and a massive attack is incoming, it can use _Defender Aura_ to halve damage to nearby allies.

__Charge into Battle__  

1. The Knight uses __Knight's Challenge__ to challenge an enemy.
2. The Knight uses it's movement and __Charge__ to close with the enemy. If it is at a high enough level, __Greater Charge__ results in an attack.
3. The knight uses __Overwhelming Strike__ for it's first attack, and gains advantage on it's second.
4. The knight uses a normal blow for the second attack. If it score's a critical hit, it can follow up with a __Shield Bash__ using its __Press the Advantage__ Combo.
5. If the Knight is high enough level, it gains another attack against challenged enemies due to its __Warrior's Vow__.

#### Paladin:
The Paladin now gains the following abilities:
* __Movement:__
  * __Pivot__ The Paladin can swap places with an adjacent ally.
* __Special Abilities:__
  * __Pledge:__ The Paladin pledges itself to a deity and receives special boons at levels 0, 5, 10, and 15.
  * __Spellcasting:__ The Paladin retains its ability to cast spells, and now learns them at a normal rate.
* __Combat Passive:__ 
  * __Hammer of Light:__ The paladin deals an extra dice of damage to undead.
  * __Bash:__ The paladin stuns an enemy on a critical hit.
  * __Faithful Weapon:__ Any thrown weapons return to the paladin.
  * __Last Hope:__ Any healing done while an ally is down or dead is doubled.
  * __Warrior Spirit:__ Any time a paladin strikes down an enemy they regain 1 action point.
  * __Beacon of Hope:__ All nearby allies gain +2 to all saves.
* __Combat Active:__
  * __Healing Blow:__ (Cost 1), add a dice of damage to an attack or spell. One quarter of the damage done is restored to allies within 15 feet.
  * __Healing Blast:__ (Cost 1), fire a 30 foot cone of healing energy. All allies struck by it regain half your level (round up) in d4's in health. Deals damage to enemies.
  * __Holy Shield:__ (Cost 1) Give an ally a shield with health equal to 2x your level. At higher levels this shield grants 1 turn of invulnerability.
  * __Guardian Ward:__ (Cost 0) Place a ward on an ally which grants a variety of effects as the paladin levels up:
    * __Armor__ The guardian ward grants 1-3 armor depending on level.
    * __Bonus Healing__ When the paladin heals an ally with a guardian ward it grants an extra dice of health.
    * __Link Lifeforce__ A paladin can take damage for an ally with a guardian ward (halved at high levels.)
    * __Guardian Spirit__ When an ally with a guardian ward strikes down an enemy, the paladin regains an action point.
  * __2 Guardian Wards__ At high levels, a paladin can place 2 guardian wards. At even higher levels, healing 1 of the allies also heals the other for half as much.
  * __Guardian Ward Conversion:__ At high levels, a paladin can convert a guardian ward on an ally to a Holy Shield.
  * __Mass Holy Shield__ (Capstone, Cost 3) Grant a Holy Shield to all allies within 30 feet. 
* __Combos__
  * __Blessing of Protection:__ After landing a critical hit, a paladin may give themself or an ally a holy shield.

The anticipated core gameplay loops for the knight are as follows:

__Area of Effect Frontline Healer__
1. The Paladin marks its allies with guardian wards.
2. It then stands amidst the front line, using a mixture of __Healing Blow__, and __Healing Blast__ and its spells to keep its allies alive.
3. The __Guardian Wards__ grant the marked allies an extra dice of health from any healing done.
4. At high levels, __Mass Holy Shield__ and __Ward Conversion__ can be used to grant allies bonus health.

__The Battery__
1. The Paladin places a __Guardian Ward__ on an ally.
2. The ally then rushes into the fray.
3. The Paladin takes their damage for them using __Link Lifeforce__ or __Greater Link Lifeforce__ for as long as possible possibly granting them health by healing a second __Guardian Ward__ recipient.
4. The Paladin then converts the ally's __Guardian Ward__ to a __Holy Shield__ using __Ward Conversion.__ This grants the ally a turn of invulnerability and 30 health at level 15.
