## Rangers and Ruffians 2.4.1: Spell Patch 1


### System Changes:
* __None__

### Balance Changes:

__Spell Balance:__ This is the first of a number of updates that will be coming to the spells of Rangers and Ruffians with the following goals. This spell affects the `Bard` and `Cleric`.
1. Increase the utility of spells.
2. Decrease spell redundancy
3. Increase the mechanical specificity of spells. Spells can include
    *  __Cost:__ A number of action points required to cast a spell.
    * __Target:__ For internal balance, the type of entity the spell targets (e.g., friend or foe)
    * __Number of targets:__ For internal balance, whether a spell targets one or many entities.
    * __Duration:__ The amount of time that the spell lasts in minutes. Zero duration indicates that the spell is instantaneous.
    * __Description:__ A (hopefully interesting) description of what the spell does.
    * __Range:__ The distance at which the spell may be cast.
    * __Purpose:__ One of `utility`, `buff`, `debuff`, `summon`, `healing` or `damage`.
    * __Dice:__ The amount of damage or healing done by the spell.
    * __Effect Type:__ The damage type of the spell.
    * __Casting Time:__ The length of time a spell requires to cast. Zero indicates that the spell is cast instantaneously.
    * __Components:__ Any physical materials needed to cast the spell.
    * __Upcast:__ Defines if additional action points can be spent on the spell to lend it extra power.
    * __Action Type:__ Whether the spell requires an `Action`, `Offhand Action`, `Free Action`, or `Reaction` to cast.
    * __Effect Radius:__ The radius that the spell effects.
    * __Hit:__ Whether the spell requires a roll to hit.
    * __School:__ The spell's school of magic.

To do this, spellbooks are being converted to `Spell Decks`, each of which contains `54` spells. These come in the form of
* `14` Tier 0 spells
* `13` Tier 1 spells
* `9` Tier 2 spells
* `8` Tier 3 spells
* `6` Tier 4 spells
* `4` Tier 5 spells.

This means that the overall _number_ of spells in the game is being decreased, while the _usefulness_ and _power_ of spells should be increasing overall.

#### Bard
Completed the Bard's `Spell Deck`.

#### Cleric
Finished tier 0-3 of the Cleric's `Spell Deck`.

### Website Updates:
* Spellbook pages have been updated.
* Fixed an error which sometimes caused spell `Effects` to be rendered incorrectly.

### Miscellaneous
None
